#summary This page contains instructions on adding the Gentooiverse overlay via the Layman overlay management tool.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Layman =

==Introduction==
Layman is a tool designed to help automate management of your local repository of overlays you want included into your Gentoo system. Most of its documentation can be found on its [http://projects.gunnarwrobel.de/scripts/wiki/layman wiki] or man page.

==Installing Layman==
First thing you want to do is install layman if you haven't already got it installed.
{{{
emerge layman
}}}

In its default configuration Layman doesn't mangle your configuration files. However, telling portage where to find new overlays is a necessity (but will cause errors if you run portage with no overlays configured):
{{{
echo PORTDIR_OVERLAY=\"\" > /usr/portage/local/layman/make.conf
echo "source /usr/portage/local/layman/make.conf" >> /etc/make.conf
}}}

== Getting Layman to find Gentooiverse ==
Once Layman is installed, you need to let it know the location of the Gentooiverse layman config and add the overlay.
{{{
layman -f -o http://gentooiverse.googlecode.com/files/layman.xml -a gentooiverse
}}}
The Gentooiverse overlay is now available for you to use.

Check for future overlay updates by doing:
{{{
layman -s gentooiverse
}}}

===Sources===
Some of the information on this page was sourced from http://gentoo-wiki.com/TIP_Overlays which has more detail about Overlays in general and how to add additional overlays to your Gentoo installation.